things around here this pinball machine
our Popeye pinball machine hi spandex
Rangers how are you good to see you all
here that's all right you just you just
just changing oh my heaven this Popeye
pinball machine comes to us courtesy of
the Williams pinball factory in Chicago
pooja Lou I'm over here and Jillian
Hamilton is in Chicago at the Williams
pinball factory good morning Jillian
good morning tom we are at the Williams
Bally Midway pinball factory here and I
wasn't interested in world soccer until
I got here and discovered their great
new game later on we're going to be
learning about how music is a very
important important part of pinball and
we'll be seeing how these pinball
machines actually get put together
that's been ball machine guts we're
looking at right now those are the guts
Kevin speaking of guts come I had a
little question for you how did you get
a sore throat in this summer from Laurie
who's not really sick she was sick last
week when you weren't on yeah but that
was the springtime oh okay i just almost
kind of curious all that gonna be one of
those shows oh let's go i'm not even
gonna try to explain that one where the
ball go it's pop I come Ludo give it up
this is an incredible pinball machine
that has been part of our game room here
at the EFX apartment since day one and
it is the work of the folks where
Gillian Hamilton is in Chicago she is
going to show us I'm over here a little
all their yards oh it's craig playing
with it now Gillian you're going to show
us everything we've always wanted to
know about how to make a pinball machine
right well first Tom I'm gonna talk to
you about music because music is an
extremely important element when it
comes to pinball machines it's the music
that creates the excitement and gives
you the feeling like wow I really won so
come with me we're gonna meet Vince here
who actually creates the music and he's
created the music also for the world cup
soccer game how you doing this morning
oh and good morning ok so the creative
people walk downstairs and they hand you
this which is a chart of what the game
looks like how do you know if
that point what music you should be
creating well ever game has a theme and
in this case it's a it's a soccer game
which is like a sporting event and we
just try to bring out the high energy
level that we'd want and the drama of
each each part of the game so for
example here there its marked goal would
you till you put like some sort of goal
music what would that sound like
screaming someone like screaming can we
hear that okay that would be someone
just score to go okay and is it just
that because I feel like there's always
more with the goal there's like music
and cheering and some other things going
on we could get the main play tuned
right here so what you're doing is hey
Manny take a look at this computer
because he's actually tapping in
information and sounds that come out out
of these speakers
okay now Vince you also play you also
play live you play live guitar and how
would that work is you have the computer
stuff and you also have guitar how does
that work and you show us that my
Macintosh computer right here and I lay
down all my my rhythm track so actually
all these things hey Manning take a look
at these these are all different
instruments these are high hats and
horns and snares and bases and then you
play over that right I write and arrange
the music and I lay it down on that that
controls my synthesizers and I sink the
mac to my 8-track digital recorder up
there and I played my live guitar tracks
right into that okay can we hear maybe a
little bit of what that background stuff
sounds like okay putting that on all
right and the guitar solo yes
great now it's so weird because we're
hearing this guitar music and this whole
Orchestra and the orchestra is actually
coming out of the computer and what's
Vince is doing is playing in
synchronicity with the guitar now all
this is for that come with me out here
Vince we're going to take a look at this
pinball machine and see how all this
amazing work that you're doing actually
plays a part in pinball now I'm not I'm
not really good at pinball or anything
like that now why don't you give us a
shot first okay first thing you want to
go for our goals so we'll just go for it
see what that goal sounded like the goal
that we were in the studio let's hear it
it sounds like there you go you get the
boys over you get the music music kind
of guides you through the game
unfortunately you do in pinball but
we'll get another ball coming up right
here okay now let me try it because this
is so interesting it's true that when
you actually see the game like this it's
just sort of hearts and bolts and nuts
but when you get the music in there it
brings out a whole new dimension you
hold this and Tom I'm going to just
leave you for a couple minutes or hang
out with me and play pinball look at me
go there are about 3,000 pieces in an
average pinball machine and later we're
going to take a look at exactly how
they're put together this the world cup
soccer pinball machine i'm currently
sipping some hot water and lemon
yesterday on the walk home i picked up a
lot of medicine to deal with this a head
cold if i had really wanted to spend
some cash i could have gotten some of
the latest state-of-the-art medical and
devices let's find out if any of them
will work what they cost Laurie's with
dr. Ron Hoffman alright thanks Thom you
know bad hair days our topic when we
return and we'll beat a real-life
pinball wizard